posts/typescript-basics.md, before:

---
title: 'TypeScript Basics'
date: '2022-01-29'
img: '/images/typescriptLogo.png'
category: 'TypeScript'
---

### Brief Introduction

TypeScript is a super set of JavaScript. TypeScript builds on top of JavaScript. First, you write the TypeScript code. Then, you compile the TypeScript code into plain JavaScript code using a TypeScript compiler. Once you have the plain JavaScript code, you can deploy it to any environments that JavaScript runs.

TypeScript files use the .ts extension rather than the .js extension of JavaScript files.

![what-is-typescript-compiler.png](https://res.cloudinary.com/dvejo6xq5/image/upload/v1643294165/what_is_typescript_compiler_cad3d4be53.png)

TypeScript uses the JavaScript syntaxes and adds additional syntaxes for supporting Types.

### Basic Types

TypeScript Basic Primitive Types are: number, string, boolean, any

```
let id: number = 1
let userName: string = 'John'
let isLoggedIn: boolean = true
let message: any = 'Hello' // any is a type that can be anything
```

### Arrays & Tuples

Array types can be written in one of two ways. These are: Array<T> and T[]

```
let ids: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3]
let names: string[] = ['John', 'Jane']
```

TypeScript Tuples are arrays with fixed number of elements.

```
let person: [string, number] = ['John', 23]

// Tuple Array
let people: [string, number][] = [
  ['John', 23],
  ['Jane', 24]
]
```

### Unions & Enum

Union is a type that can be any of the types in the union.

```
let productID: number | string | boolean = 1
productID = '1'
```

Enum is a way to define a set of named constants. There are three types of enums: Numeric, String, Heterogeneous. When no value is given, the values are assigned sequentially as 0, 1, 2, 3.

```
enum Direction1 {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right
}

console.log(Direction1.Right) // 3

enum Direction2 {
  Up = 'Up',
  Down = 'Down',
  Left = 'Left',
  Right = 'Right'
}

console.log(Direction2.Left) // Left
```

### Objects

instead of type, interface is might be used here. There are certain differences between them. The right one should be chosen according to the requirement.

```
type User = {
  name: string
  age: number | null
  address?: string // ? means optional
}

let user: User = {
  name: 'John',
  age: null
}

```

### Type Assertion

Type Assertion is a way to tell the compiler that the value has a certain type. When using TypeScript with JSX, only as-style assertions are allowed.

```
let cid: any = 'a'
// let customerId = <number>customerId
let customerId = cid as number  //  customerId type is number anymore
```

### Functions

```
function add(a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b
}

// Optional Parameters
function add2(a: number, b?: number): number {
  return a + (b || 0)
}

// Default Parameters
function add3(a: number, b: number = 0): number {
  return a + b
}

// Rest Parameters
// rest is a special type that represents an array of all the remaining arguments
function add4(a: number, b: number, ...rest: number[]): number {
  return a + b + rest.reduce((a, b) => a + b, 0)
}
add4(1, 2, 3, 4, 5) // 15

// Function Types
let add5: (a: number, b: number) => number

add5 = (a, b) => a + b

// Function Types with Union Types
let add6: (a: number, b: number) => number | string

add6 = (a, b) => a + b

// Function Types with Array Types
let add7: (a: number, b: number) => number[]

add7 = (a, b) => [a + b]

// Function Types with Tuple Types
let add8: (a: number, b: number) => [number, number]

add8 = (a, b) => [a + b, a - b]

// Function Types with Object Types
let add9: (a: number, b: number) => { a: number; b: number }

add9 = (a, b) => ({ a, b })

// Function Types with Function Types
let add10: (a: number, b: number) => (c: number) => number

add10 = (a, b) => (c) => a + b + c
```

### Interfaces

Interfaces are a way to define the shape of an object.

```
interface Person {
  name?: string
  readonly surname: string // readonly means that property cannot be changed
  age: number
}

const person1: Person = {
  surname: 'John',
  age: 23
}

person1.surname = 'Doe' // Error : Cannot assign to ‘surname’ because it is a read-only property.
```

### Function Interface

Function interfaces are used to define the shape of a function.

```
interface Calculation {
  (a: number, b: number): number
}

let addFn: Calculation = (a, b) => a + b
let subtractFn: Calculation = (a, b) => a - b
```

### Classes & Data(Access) Modifiers

Classes are a way to define a type that represents an object.
Data modifiers are used to modify the data of an object.

```
class Person1 {
  protected name: string
  public surname: string
  private age: number

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, age: number) {
    this.name = name
    this.surname = surname
    this.age = age
  }

  greet(): string {
    return `Hello, that is ${this.name + this.surname} her/his age is ${this.age}`
  }
}

class Student extends Person1 {
  isGraduated: boolean

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, age: number, isGraduated: boolean) {
    super(name, surname, age)
    this.isGraduated = isGraduated
  }

  nameWithIsGraduated(): string {
    return `${this.name} ${this.surname} is ${this.isGraduated ? 'graduated' : 'not graduated'}`
  }
}

const person2 = new Person1('Furkan', 'Demirtaş', 25)
const person3 = new Person1('Ahmet', 'Uslu', 35)
const student1 = new Student('Devrim', 'Özkan', 21, false)
const student2 = new Student('Ozan Batuhan', 'Kurucu', 25, true)

student2.name = 'aa' // Error: Property 'name' is protected and only accessible within class 'Person1' and its subclasses.
student2.age = 5 // Error : Property 'age' is private and only accessible within class 'Person1'.
student2.surname = 'Özdemir' // Property 'surname' is public and can be accessed from outside of the class.
```

### Implement Interface in Class

```
interface PersonInterface {
  name: string
  surname: string
  getName(): string
}

class PersonForInterface implements PersonInterface {
  name: string
  surname: string

  constructor(name: string, surname: string) {
    this.name = name
    this.surname = surname
  }

  getName(): string {
    return this.name + this.surname
  }
}
```

### Extending Classes(Subclasses)

```
class Employee extends PersonForInterface {
  department: string

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, department: string) {
    super(name, surname) // super is used to call the constructor of the parent class
    this.department = department
  }

  getDepartment(): string {
    return `Employee name is ${this.getName()} and department is ${this.department}`
  }
}

const employee = new Employee('Ozan Batuhan', 'Kurucu', 'Software Engineering')

employee.getDepartment() // Employee name is Ozan Batuhan Kurucu and department is Software Engineering
```

### Generics

Generics are a way to specify the type of the data that an object or function accepts.

```
function getArray<T>(input: T[]): T[] {
  return input
}

const numbersArray = getArray<number>([1, 2, 3])
const namesArray = getArray<string>(['John', 'Jane'])

numbersArray.push('5') // Error:  Argument of type string is not assignable to parameter of type number[]
namesArray.push(5) // Error:  Argument of type number is not assignable to parameter of type string[]
```

create useState() function with generics

```
function useState<T>(initialState: T): [T, (newState: T) => void] {
  let state = initialState
  function setState(newState: T) {
    state = newState
  }
  return [state, setState]
}

const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

setCount('a') // Error: Type '"a"' is not assignable to type 'number'.
```

### TypeScript with React

To start a new Create React App project with TypeScript, you can run:

```
npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript

# or

yarn create react-app my-app --template typescript
```

./src/App.tsx

```
import { useState, ChangeEvent } from 'react'
import './App.css'
import Header from './Header'
interface User {
  name: string
  age: number
}

function App() {
  const [title, setTitle] = useState<string>('React')
  const [user, setUser] = useState<User>({ name: '', age: 0 })

  const handleChange = (event: ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>): void => {
    setUser((prevUser: User): User => ({ ...prevUser, [event.target.name]: event.target.value }))
  }

  return (
    <div className='App'>
      <Header title={title} fontSize={32} />
      <input
        type='text'
        value={title}
        placeholder='Change title'
        onChange={(event: ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => setTitle(event.target.value)}
      />
      <input
        type='text'
        style={{ display: 'block', margin: '8px auto' }}
        placeholder='User name'
        name='name'
        value={user.name}
        onChange={handleChange}
      />
      <p>{`User: ${user.name}`}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default App
```

./src/Header.tsx

```
export interface HeaderProps {
  title: string
  color?: string
  fontSize?: number
}

const Header = ({ title, color = '#33D1F7', fontSize = 40 }: HeaderProps) => {
  return <h1 style={{ color, fontSize }}>{title}</h1>
}

export default Header
```

### Helpful resources

- [TypeScript Basics Github Source Code](https://github.com/ozanbatuhankurucu/TypeScript-Tutorial-Traversy-Media)
- [TypeScript with React Github Source](https://github.com/ozanbatuhankurucu/Create-React-App-With-TypeScript)
- [TypeScript Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCg4U1FzODs&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org)
- [What is TypeScript](https://www.typescripttutorial.net/typescript-tutorial/what-is-typescript/)
- [Types vs. interfaces in TypeScript](https://blog.logrocket.com/types-vs-interfaces-in-typescript/)

Commit message:

Add meta description for articles

posts/typescript-basics.md, after:

---
title: 'TypeScript Basics'
date: '2022-01-29'
img: '/images/typescriptLogo.png'
category: 'TypeScript'
description: 'Learn the basics of TypeScript in this comprehensive article. TypeScript, a superset of JavaScript, introduces additional syntax and type support. Discover the TypeScript compilation process, where TypeScript code is compiled into plain JavaScript for deployment in any JavaScript environment. Explore basic types such as number, string, boolean, and any, along with arrays, tuples, unions, and enums. Dive into interfaces and classes, understanding data modifiers and inheritance. Gain insights into generics, function interfaces, and TypeScript integration with React. Access helpful resources, including GitHub source code, video tutorials, and informative articles, to further expand your knowledge of TypeScript.'
---

### Brief Introduction

TypeScript is a super set of JavaScript. TypeScript builds on top of JavaScript. First, you write the TypeScript code. Then, you compile the TypeScript code into plain JavaScript code using a TypeScript compiler. Once you have the plain JavaScript code, you can deploy it to any environments that JavaScript runs.

TypeScript files use the .ts extension rather than the .js extension of JavaScript files.

![what-is-typescript-compiler.png](https://res.cloudinary.com/dvejo6xq5/image/upload/v1643294165/what_is_typescript_compiler_cad3d4be53.png)

TypeScript uses the JavaScript syntaxes and adds additional syntaxes for supporting Types.

### Basic Types

TypeScript Basic Primitive Types are: number, string, boolean, any

```
let id: number = 1
let userName: string = 'John'
let isLoggedIn: boolean = true
let message: any = 'Hello' // any is a type that can be anything
```

### Arrays & Tuples

Array types can be written in one of two ways. These are: Array<T> and T[]

```
let ids: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3]
let names: string[] = ['John', 'Jane']
```

TypeScript Tuples are arrays with fixed number of elements.

```
let person: [string, number] = ['John', 23]

// Tuple Array
let people: [string, number][] = [
  ['John', 23],
  ['Jane', 24]
]
```

### Unions & Enum

Union is a type that can be any of the types in the union.

```
let productID: number | string | boolean = 1
productID = '1'
```

Enum is a way to define a set of named constants. There are three types of enums: Numeric, String, Heterogeneous. When no value is given, the values are assigned sequentially as 0, 1, 2, 3.

```
enum Direction1 {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right
}

console.log(Direction1.Right) // 3

enum Direction2 {
  Up = 'Up',
  Down = 'Down',
  Left = 'Left',
  Right = 'Right'
}

console.log(Direction2.Left) // Left
```

### Objects

instead of type, interface is might be used here. There are certain differences between them. The right one should be chosen according to the requirement.

```
type User = {
  name: string
  age: number | null
  address?: string // ? means optional
}

let user: User = {
  name: 'John',
  age: null
}

```

### Type Assertion

Type Assertion is a way to tell the compiler that the value has a certain type. When using TypeScript with JSX, only as-style assertions are allowed.

```
let cid: any = 'a'
// let customerId = <number>customerId
let customerId = cid as number  //  customerId type is number anymore
```

### Functions

```
function add(a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b
}

// Optional Parameters
function add2(a: number, b?: number): number {
  return a + (b || 0)
}

// Default Parameters
function add3(a: number, b: number = 0): number {
  return a + b
}

// Rest Parameters
// rest is a special type that represents an array of all the remaining arguments
function add4(a: number, b: number, ...rest: number[]): number {
  return a + b + rest.reduce((a, b) => a + b, 0)
}
add4(1, 2, 3, 4, 5) // 15

// Function Types
let add5: (a: number, b: number) => number

add5 = (a, b) => a + b

// Function Types with Union Types
let add6: (a: number, b: number) => number | string

add6 = (a, b) => a + b

// Function Types with Array Types
let add7: (a: number, b: number) => number[]

add7 = (a, b) => [a + b]

// Function Types with Tuple Types
let add8: (a: number, b: number) => [number, number]

add8 = (a, b) => [a + b, a - b]

// Function Types with Object Types
let add9: (a: number, b: number) => { a: number; b: number }

add9 = (a, b) => ({ a, b })

// Function Types with Function Types
let add10: (a: number, b: number) => (c: number) => number

add10 = (a, b) => (c) => a + b + c
```

### Interfaces

Interfaces are a way to define the shape of an object.

```
interface Person {
  name?: string
  readonly surname: string // readonly means that property cannot be changed
  age: number
}

const person1: Person = {
  surname: 'John',
  age: 23
}

person1.surname = 'Doe' // Error : Cannot assign to ‘surname’ because it is a read-only property.
```

### Function Interface

Function interfaces are used to define the shape of a function.

```
interface Calculation {
  (a: number, b: number): number
}

let addFn: Calculation = (a, b) => a + b
let subtractFn: Calculation = (a, b) => a - b
```

### Classes & Data(Access) Modifiers

Classes are a way to define a type that represents an object.
Data modifiers are used to modify the data of an object.

```
class Person1 {
  protected name: string
  public surname: string
  private age: number

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, age: number) {
    this.name = name
    this.surname = surname
    this.age = age
  }

  greet(): string {
    return `Hello, that is ${this.name + this.surname} her/his age is ${this.age}`
  }
}

class Student extends Person1 {
  isGraduated: boolean

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, age: number, isGraduated: boolean) {
    super(name, surname, age)
    this.isGraduated = isGraduated
  }

  nameWithIsGraduated(): string {
    return `${this.name} ${this.surname} is ${this.isGraduated ? 'graduated' : 'not graduated'}`
  }
}

const person2 = new Person1('Furkan', 'Demirtaş', 25)
const person3 = new Person1('Ahmet', 'Uslu', 35)
const student1 = new Student('Devrim', 'Özkan', 21, false)
const student2 = new Student('Ozan Batuhan', 'Kurucu', 25, true)

student2.name = 'aa' // Error: Property 'name' is protected and only accessible within class 'Person1' and its subclasses.
student2.age = 5 // Error : Property 'age' is private and only accessible within class 'Person1'.
student2.surname = 'Özdemir' // Property 'surname' is public and can be accessed from outside of the class.
```

### Implement Interface in Class

```
interface PersonInterface {
  name: string
  surname: string
  getName(): string
}

class PersonForInterface implements PersonInterface {
  name: string
  surname: string

  constructor(name: string, surname: string) {
    this.name = name
    this.surname = surname
  }

  getName(): string {
    return this.name + this.surname
  }
}
```

### Extending Classes(Subclasses)

```
class Employee extends PersonForInterface {
  department: string

  constructor(name: string, surname: string, department: string) {
    super(name, surname) // super is used to call the constructor of the parent class
    this.department = department
  }

  getDepartment(): string {
    return `Employee name is ${this.getName()} and department is ${this.department}`
  }
}

const employee = new Employee('Ozan Batuhan', 'Kurucu', 'Software Engineering')

employee.getDepartment() // Employee name is Ozan Batuhan Kurucu and department is Software Engineering
```

### Generics

Generics are a way to specify the type of the data that an object or function accepts.

```
function getArray<T>(input: T[]): T[] {
  return input
}

const numbersArray = getArray<number>([1, 2, 3])
const namesArray = getArray<string>(['John', 'Jane'])

numbersArray.push('5') // Error:  Argument of type string is not assignable to parameter of type number[]
namesArray.push(5) // Error:  Argument of type number is not assignable to parameter of type string[]
```

create useState() function with generics

```
function useState<T>(initialState: T): [T, (newState: T) => void] {
  let state = initialState
  function setState(newState: T) {
    state = newState
  }
  return [state, setState]
}

const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

setCount('a') // Error: Type '"a"' is not assignable to type 'number'.
```

### TypeScript with React

To start a new Create React App project with TypeScript, you can run:

```
npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript

# or

yarn create react-app my-app --template typescript
```

./src/App.tsx

```
import { useState, ChangeEvent } from 'react'
import './App.css'
import Header from './Header'
interface User {
  name: string
  age: number
}

function App() {
  const [title, setTitle] = useState<string>('React')
  const [user, setUser] = useState<User>({ name: '', age: 0 })

  const handleChange = (event: ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>): void => {
    setUser((prevUser: User): User => ({ ...prevUser, [event.target.name]: event.target.value }))
  }

  return (
    <div className='App'>
      <Header title={title} fontSize={32} />
      <input
        type='text'
        value={title}
        placeholder='Change title'
        onChange={(event: ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => setTitle(event.target.value)}
      />
      <input
        type='text'
        style={{ display: 'block', margin: '8px auto' }}
        placeholder='User name'
        name='name'
        value={user.name}
        onChange={handleChange}
      />
      <p>{`User: ${user.name}`}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default App
```

./src/Header.tsx

```
export interface HeaderProps {
  title: string
  color?: string
  fontSize?: number
}

const Header = ({ title, color = '#33D1F7', fontSize = 40 }: HeaderProps) => {
  return <h1 style={{ color, fontSize }}>{title}</h1>
}

export default Header
```

### Helpful resources

- [TypeScript Basics Github Source Code](https://github.com/ozanbatuhankurucu/TypeScript-Tutorial-Traversy-Media)
- [TypeScript with React Github Source](https://github.com/ozanbatuhankurucu/Create-React-App-With-TypeScript)
- [TypeScript Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCg4U1FzODs&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org)
- [What is TypeScript](https://www.typescripttutorial.net/typescript-tutorial/what-is-typescript/)
- [Types vs. interfaces in TypeScript](https://blog.logrocket.com/types-vs-interfaces-in-typescript/)
