posts/what-means-pass-by-value.md, before:

---
title: 'What means pass-by-value in JavaScript?'
date: '2022-01-10'
img: '/images/carbon1.png'
category: 'JavaScript'
---

JavaScript is always pass-by-value. It is obvious to see that primitive variables are passed with values.

```
function square(x) {
  x = x * x
  return x
}

var y = 10
var result = square(y)

console.log(y) // 10 -- no change
console.log(result) // 100
```

But this is not the case for Objects. As seen in the example below, if we assign the firstObj variable to secondObj, they both reference to the same value in memory. Therefore, when we modify firstObj or secondObj, since we are modifying the same reference, we are changing both and show the same value. This should be considered when using the Object.

```
let firstObj = { a: 3 }
const increaseFirstObj = (obj) => {
  obj.a++
  return obj
}

let secondObj = increaseFirstObj(firstObj)

console.log(firstObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(secondObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(firstObj === secondObj) // true

firstObj = { a: 7, b: 9 }

console.log(firstObj) // { a:7, b:9 }
console.log(secondObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(firstObj === secondObj) //  false
```

### Helpful resources

- [Is JavaScript pass-by-value or pass-by-reference?](https://www.30secondsofcode.org/articles/s/javascript-pass-by-reference-or-pass-by-value)
- [Understanding JavaScript Pass By Value](https://www.javascripttutorial.net/javascript-pass-by-value/)

Commit message:

Add meta description for articles

posts/what-means-pass-by-value.md, after:

---
title: 'What means pass-by-value in JavaScript?'
date: '2022-01-10'
img: '/images/carbon1.png'
category: 'JavaScript'
description: 'Discover the concept of pass-by-value in JavaScript through this insightful article. Learn how primitive variables are passed with values, while objects behave differently due to shared references. Gain clarity on the implications of this behavior when modifying objects and understand the importance of considering it in programming. Explore code examples that illustrate pass-by-value for primitives and shared references for objects. Additionally, find helpful resources for further exploration of JavaScript's pass-by-value behavior. Deepen your understanding of pass-by-value in JavaScript and its impact on variable assignments and object modifications.'
---

JavaScript is always pass-by-value. It is obvious to see that primitive variables are passed with values.

```
function square(x) {
  x = x * x
  return x
}

var y = 10
var result = square(y)

console.log(y) // 10 -- no change
console.log(result) // 100
```

But this is not the case for Objects. As seen in the example below, if we assign the firstObj variable to secondObj, they both reference to the same value in memory. Therefore, when we modify firstObj or secondObj, since we are modifying the same reference, we are changing both and show the same value. This should be considered when using the Object.

```
let firstObj = { a: 3 }
const increaseFirstObj = (obj) => {
  obj.a++
  return obj
}

let secondObj = increaseFirstObj(firstObj)

console.log(firstObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(secondObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(firstObj === secondObj) // true

firstObj = { a: 7, b: 9 }

console.log(firstObj) // { a:7, b:9 }
console.log(secondObj) // { a:4 }
console.log(firstObj === secondObj) //  false
```

### Helpful resources

- [Is JavaScript pass-by-value or pass-by-reference?](https://www.30secondsofcode.org/articles/s/javascript-pass-by-reference-or-pass-by-value)
- [Understanding JavaScript Pass By Value](https://www.javascripttutorial.net/javascript-pass-by-value/)
